
# 2018

## Q1

An Irish **medium-sized** manufacturing company has about **1000
employees**, a **small number of overseas offices** and some dozens of
frequently **travelling employees**. The company want to **REPLACE THEIR
EXISTING IN-HOUSE EMAIL INFRASTRUCTURE** and are considering how to do
that, including deciding **what to continue to host themselves and what
to outsource**. They ask you, as a security consultant, to do a risk
analysis for them, **CONSIDERING THE SECURITY AND PRIVACY IMPLICATIONS OF
A NEW EMAIL SYSTEM AND OF MIGRATION FROM THE OLD TO A NEW SYSTEM**.
The new system may involve updates for all email components:
standard desktop, mobile and web user agents, mail submission
servers, inbound and outbound mail transfer agents, message stores
and security components such as anti-spam and anti-malware
systems. Existing accounts and message store content will need to be
migrated to the new system as that is incrementally deployed. A very
**small number of employees use PGP** (mainly sysadmins) but **most
users do not use of PGP or S/MIME**. **Some users currently use thirdparty email systems**, (such as gmail/hotmail), for work email, as there
is no policy in place about the use of such third-party systems.

## Q1a)

11:32AM -> 11:49AM

#### Risk Identification

For each component of the system, as many risks as possible would need to be
identified.

#### Risk Classification

Once as many risks as possible have been identified, the risks would
be classified in terms of:
  * The impact they would have on the company
  * The likelihood of them occurring

The risks' impact and likelihood would be given values to from low to high
to normalise the importance of mitigating each risk. These values would be used
to order the risks by their importance.

#### Risk Mitigation

After the risks have been ordered by importance, a mitigation is designed for
the most important risk on the list.

#### Iteration

As each risk is mitigated (or as necessary), the list is re-analysed to assess
the proper order for the remaining risks. This is because the mitigation for
one risk could effect the probability of other risks or may introduce new risks.

#### Termination

In practice, the process is terminated once available effort is expended. Time
and money may mean that mitigations may not be designed for every possible risk.

## Q1b)

Some risks have a high likelihood if absolutely nothing is done to avoid them, but can have a very low likelihood once with a little bit of work.

Spam, phishing, malware, availability,
MUAs that render active content,
abuse of content if 3rd parties used,
spear phishing,

|||
|---|---|
|Risk|Spam|
|How it occurs|Spammers send mass emails in order to get as many people as possible to interact with their schemes.|
|Impact|Low|
|Likelihood|High|
|Justification for values|Spam is everywhere and it takes very little effort for spammers to attempt to send an extra 1000 emails. The potential return on investment sending an extra 1000 emails is very high.|
|Recommendation|Strengthen anti-spam email filters.|

|||
|---|---|
|Risk|Phishing|
|How it occurs|Employees share their information unknowingly to malicious actors through email.|
|Impact|High|
|Likelihood|High|
|Justification for values|Impact is high as it could compromise the entire network, once malicious actors have the required information from an employee, they may have access to lots of private company information. Likelihood is high as it is a medium sized business with about a thousand employees (a lot). A manufacturing company is also a good target for phishing attacks, as it may have private information about products from other companies who avail of their services. This makes them a target for competitors of each company that is a client of theirs.|
|Recommendation|Educate employees, conduct training sessions, have personnel that employees can contact if they are suspicious of an email. Require 2FA so that stolen information from successful phishing attempts will be of no use without the second authentication device. Restrict each employee's access in the system to only the parts of the system that they are required to have access to, this means that successful phishing attempts will get access to less of the system. Restrict access to networks with a VPN, with 2FA on the VPN as well, so that malicious actors must be on the network to even use credentials they may have stolen.|

|||
|---|---|
|Risk|Lack of availability|
|How it occurs|A security measure often worth taking is to only allow access to the system from the company network. If this is the case, it could mean that the dozens of frequently travelling employees may not have vital access they need.|
|Impact|High|
|Likelihood|High|
|Justification for values|It is very likely that travelling employees will need access to information or process on the company system when working. For this reason, the impact of them not being able to access the system is high. The likelihood is very high as there are so many employees frequently travelling. This risk generally occurs as a result of previous security measures (limiting access to the company network).|
|Recommendation|Make sure the proper infrastructure is in place for employees to easily connect to the company network from anywhere through the use of a VPN. Preferably using 2FA to connect to the VPN.|

|||
|---|---|
|Risk|MUAs that render active content|
|How it occurs|MUAs can make network calls or run malicious code when opening emails, if they are not configured properly.|
|Impact|High|
|Likelihood|Medium|
|Justification for values| Impact is high, as  Likelihood is medium, as most MUAs will not support the running of malicious code in emails, but it is extremely likely that emails will contain tracking pixels that will cause the MUA to leak information about the interactions employees have with the email.|
|Recommendation|Educate employees about the risks. Enforce that employees use particular MUAs with specific set ups.|

## Q1c)

* The company may not have set up SPF, DKIM, DMARC (or not set them up properly). This would allow malicious actors to send emails pretending they had come from the company's domain.

* They may have updated some user agents while forgetting about less used other user agents (e.g. desktop and mobile while forgetting about web user agents).

* They may not have considered the risks associated with their 3rd parties.
  * Are the 3rd parties' security and privacy measures at the level desired by the company?
  * Are there ways in which the 3rd parties could abuse the content that they are given access to?

* If they continue to host parts of their system themselves, have they considered the risk of those components going down? Could those components experience a denial of service attack?



# Q2

## Q2a)

### Scheme

TLS started off as Netscape's SSL, but was created separately as TLS so that everyone could make use of it.

The additional cost of the TLS handshake for HTTPS results in a noticeable hit to latency compared to an HTTP alone.

Them main issues that drove the design of TLS1.3 are:
  * reducing handshake latency
  * encrypting more of the handshake
  * improving resiliency to cross-protocol attacks
  * removing legacy features

To reduce the risks caused by non-forward secret connections and million-message attacks, RSA encryption was removed from TLS 1.3, leaving ephemeral Diffie-Hellman as the only key exchange mechanism.

The parameters used for DH determine how vulnerable it is to attack. Many TLS servers could be tricked into using small numbers for DH, allowing an attacker to break the security of the protocol and decrypt conversations. TLS1.3 the more vulnerable choices from the protocol.

A stream cipher takes a fixed-size key and uses it to create a stream of pseudo-random data of arbitrary length, called a key stream. To encrypt with a stream cipher, you take your message and combine it with the key stream by XORing each bit of the key stream with the corresponding bit of your message.. To decrypt, you take the encrypted message and XOR it with the key stream.

A block cipher is different than a stream cipher because it only encrypts fixed-sized messages. If you want to encrypt a message that is shorter or longer than the block size, you have to do a bit of work. For shorter messages, you have to add some extra data to the end of the message. For longer messages, you can either split your message up into blocks the cipher can encrypt and then use a block cipher mode to combine the pieces together somehow.

The only type of symmetric crypto allowed in TLS 1.3 is a new construction called AEAD (authenticated encryption with additional data), which combines encryption and integrity into one seamless operation.

1-RTT

TLS1.3 has a significantly simplified ciphersuite. This limited set of choices means that a client can simply choose to send DH key shares in the first message instead of waiting until the server has confirmed which key shares it is willing to support. This way, the server can learn the shared secret and send encrypted data one round trip earlier.  
In the rare situation that the server does not support one of the key shares sent by the client, the server can send a new message, the HelloRetryRequest, to let the client know which groups it supports. Because the list has been trimmed down so much, this is not expected to be a common occurrence.

0-RTT

TLS1.3 has a new mode called PSK (pre-shared key) resumption. The idea is that after a session is established, the client and server can derive a shared secret called the “resumption master secret” which can be stored on the server or encrypted by a key known only by the server and sent to the client.

### TLS Handshake

The handshake can be thought of as having three phases.

* **Key Exchange**: Establishing shared keying material and selecting cryptographic parameters. Everything after this phase is encrypted.
* **Server Parameters**: Establish other handshake parameters.
* **Authentication**: Authenticate the server (and optionally, the client) and provide key confirmation and handshake integrity.

<-- Insert Diagram -->

TODO: Describe what's happening in the diagram

#### Authentication

#### Incorrect DHE Share

If the client has not provided a sufficient "key_share" extension (e.g., it includes only DHE or ECDHE groups unacceptable to or unsupported by the server), the server corrects the mismatch with a HelloRetryRequest and the client needs to restart the handshake with an appropriate "key_share" extension.

#### Resumption and Pre-Shared Key (PSK)

PSKs can be established in previous connections and then be used again to establish a new connection. If the server accepts the PSK, it can be used with Diffie-Hellman in order to provide forward secrecy.

#### 0-RTT Data

When clients and servers share a PSK (either obtained externally or via a previous handshake), TLS 1.3 allows clients to send data on the first flight ("early data"). This data is not forward secret, and there are no guarantees of non-replay between connections.





### Application Layer

## Q2b)

You must know Bleichenbacher

CRIME

#2c)


# Q3

TCD decide to plan for the increasingly common situation where the
campus must temporarily close due to a “red” weather alert. The
overall plan is to be able to switch into **a “remote-access” mode of
operation where administrators, academic staff and students can still
do some work**, **even if they cannot operate entirely normally**. In
“remote-access” mode, **(some) lectures will continue via the Internet**,
and **coursework assignments can be set, completed and marked**.
Clearly, **real-time exceptions will need to be handled**, e.g., due to
network problems. More fundamentally, **new timetables/schedules
and modes for student/staff interaction** will be needed to handle
lecture timetabling and assignments without over-burdening staff and
students who will at the same time be dealing with the physical
disruption caused by the inclement weather.
The university are at the early planning stages for this system, and
ask you to provide a **design for a prototype system to be trialled** in
the School of Computer Science and Statistics. The prototype system
will be tested via a planned exercise that will only be announced a
few days ahead of time. That is, students, academic and support staff,
will **only have 2-3 days notice that they are to switch into “remote access” mode** for one week, that they must not attend campus during
that week (relevant buildings will be locked), and that they need to
use the new system to do as much “normal” work as possible. Before
the exercise, students will not have used the system before, but they
will have undergone some training and HOWTOs and other guides will
be available online. You can assume staff have had more training but
are still quite unfamiliar with the system.

## Q3a)

#### Overall Design

Lecturers can specify whether they are able to record lectures (some may not have the means to). These lectures can go ahead, either through a live feed or having them recorded and the videos uploaded. The lecture schedule should remain the same as non-red weather alert time. If lecturers are able to give live lecture feeds at these times then they can do so at these times. Students can be made aware of lectures that will or will not happen and how to 'attend' these lectures. Lecturers can be made aware of the timetables of their students so that missed lectures can be made up for in time slots where all students of the class are free. These lectures can only be accessed in the remote access mode that students have to use their credentials for (or while logged onto the college network). The setting, completing and marking of assignments can continue to be done through Blackboard.

#### Network Diagram

<-- Insert Darragh's Network diagram :( -->

#### How Scheduling is Handled

#### Security & Privacy Requirements

Best to use 2FA. All Blackboard interaction can be done as usual. There is a risk of DOS attacks from students who would rather do nothing.

Don't want multiple people accessing




/
