
*https://github.com/nating/personal-notes/blob/master/fifth-year/next-generation-networks/5g.md*

# 5G

* 5G will bring:
   * Enhanced Mobile Broadband
   * Massive machine type communications
   * Ultra reliable and Low latency communications

* A 5G goal is to deliver 50Mbps everywhere.

* Key step changes in functionality from 5G will be:
  * 1/5 of the end-to-end latency, reaching delays of <5ms.
  * 1/1,000 of the service deployment time reaching a complete deployment in ≤ 90 minutes.
  * Service reliability ≥ 99.999% for specific mission critical services.

* **IOE** stands for Internet of Everything.

* **Tactile Internet** is an internet network that combines ultra low latency with extremely high availability, reliability and security.

* 4G was mainly for video.

* 5G will be for video, IOE, Tactile Internet, and Mission critical services.

* **IMT** stands for International Mobile Telecommunications.

* **ITU** stands for International Telecommunication Union, which is the agency in the UN making decisions about telecommunications regulations.

* 4G is also referred to as **IMT-Advanced**.

* 5G is also referred to as **IMT-2020**.

* **OTT** means Over The Top of the network. e.g. innovation happens by using the network rather than innovation on the network itself (innovation of smartphones etc).

* 5G may also be called **VG** (the v stands for **Vertical**), as there will be movement from one-size-fits all bit pipe to tailored network services for different application types.

* One-size-fits-all networks architectures works well for single-service subscriber networks with predictable traffic and growth.

* **SDN** stands for Software Defined Networks.

* **NFV** stands for Network Function Virtualisation.

* Cloud technologies, SDN, and NFV enhance network flexibility.

* **Network Slicing** is taking a network and building it flexibly so that it can be:
  * Shared by different types of user
  * Have its architecture tailored to suit different use-types
  * Have its resources allocated in a granular fashion
  * Be billed in a granular fashion

* A **Network Slice** is a connectivity service defined by a number of customisable software-defined functions.

* A network slice's software-defined functions govern:
  * Geographical coverage area
  * Duration
  * Capacity
  * Speed
  * Latency
  * Robustness
  * Security
  * Availability

*  The benefit of SDN lies in its ability to provide an abstraction of the physical network infrastructure.

* NFV *"enables instant scalability"*.

* The most significant benefit brought about by NFV is the flexibility to execute network functions independently of location.

* **SLA** stands for Service Level Agreements.

* A very high connection density is important for massive machine type communications.
